let's bring in Christian Cardon he is
the head of the office in Gaza at the
icrc the international Committee of the
Red Cross he joins us now from Geneva
Christian you just heard blinken there
talk about their plan for Aid to and I
quote reach civilians in Gaza and them
alone how realistic is that given that
we're talking about an armed group that
many regard as a social movement and and
also just how densely populated the Gaza
Strip
is well this is absolutely needed
because the situ that is unfolding at
the moment in Gaza is just there are
many Declaration of unprecedent Crisis
and this is what we can definitely
confirm lack of food lack of water lack
of access to electricity L lack of
medicines and the situation is
definitely becoming unturn for the
population in addition to that and
you've mentioned it in previous report
the situation remains unsafe in the
South so we have colleagues telling us
that in 24 hours they had to leave the
nose and actually reach the sou thinking
that they could find a safer place but
at the moment this is not the case
there's still bombing ongoing and so yes
humanitarian Aid it's urgently needed at
the time and while I'm talking to you we
haven't seen this entering into Gaza
this will be absolutely key but this is
not enough there are many other things
that will be needed letting humanitarian
actors doing their job today this is not
enough the case we have a very limited
space in the South but it's very
important that humanitarian actors
including the icrc the Palestine red PR
can access the north too Christian this
idea though that Aid will only be given
to civilians and that that is possible
in terms of Aid distribution is that
realistic are you going to be able to
have a plan to get Aid into the Gaza
Strip and make sure that no one vaguely
Affiliated to Hamas or or supports ham
Mass receives any of
it I think we have to be real very
realistic in this situation and and
obviously ICC and many other actors we
we have a certain experience and
although this is uh an unprecedent
situation as I said before we are ready
we have many AIDS convos that are ready
that are on the Move we have surgical
team we have additional staff and this
is the case again for other actors so
it's urgent to let them in when this Aid
will come e come come inside the the the
Gaza Strip obviously we will do our best
to make sure that you know the civilian
population those who who be paed in this
conflict uh will actually get that Aid
first that's that's clearly always the
top priority of the ICC wherever we work
you mentioned the the danger the ongoing
danger there human rights organizations
have described the Israeli air strikes
as prioritizing damage over Precision
we've obviously seen strikes take out
medical facilities ambulances now we've
heard just in the last last few minutes
also this unra shelter people died in a
school what protection can be offered to
the aid workers who will be doing the
Aid
distribution I think this is a very
clear message that we have reminded both
parties the Israeli authorities and the
Hamas authorities the first days the
first minutes of this escalation we've
been very clear on respecting the law of
war and this is not a Toopy you know
it's extremely realistic it's extremely
pragmatic civilian civilian
infrastructures should be respected
should be spad at all time and and
authorities on both Sid should make sure
that these infrastructures are keep
their nature their civilian nature so
yes what is unfolding now is extremely
Waring the icrc is in contact with both
parties constantly um at the IDF level
but also with the Hamas authorities at
the highest level making sure that these
infrastructures including those that
have been left behind can be respected
well the icrc your organization works
specifically on civilian protection and
international humanitarian law so let me
ask do you have any expectation any hope
that there will actually be
accountability for the violations of
international law that have already
taken
place you know for the time being the
urgency we've discussed it it's to bring
Aid making sure that what's happening
now the events that are unfolding and
making sure that the parties respect
that L yes we believe it's realistic yes
we believe that there can be
humanitarian pose absolutely there could
be a secession of hostilities so that
people you know can manage their debt
can Evacuate the wounded can actually uh
have their food and water access to food
water and electricity so yes we believe
as humanitarian actor having wor there
in the past and in many other places
that obviously bringing humanity and
also International humanitarian law at
the middle of this is absolutely urgent
now Christian just before I let you go
you obviously mentioned that there are
Aid convoys waiting to go in and they
haven't been allowed to do so what is
the situation like now at Rafa
Crossing well at the moment and from
what we hear from our team again on on
the other side from from the the Gaza
sign very close to the to the Rafa
Crossing is that obviously that that
there is a so many people and and still
many people arriving but as I said for a
still very unsecure situation and what
they can see what we can hear on the
other side is that things are being
prepared but for the time being the door
remain closed and that's the urgency and
this is why the ongoing negotiations
that are taking place are absolutely
vital for the population of Gaza
Christian Cardon there who was the head
of the office in Gaza at the icrc the
international Committee of the Red Cross
thank you for joining us on Al jazer we
really wish you all the best with your
work and your efforts thank you very
much